Favorite Resources for Bootcampers - Soft Skills Installment

When I talk to current or recent bootcamp students, I'm often asked about how to break into the consulting field as a developer. Technical skills are certainly important, and you need a baseline of knowledge in order to speak intelligently with your peers and customers. However, soft skills are critical in landing a job, developing relationships, and navigating difficult situations on the job.

Some of my favorite resources for developing soft skills include:

1. The 2-Hour Job Search by Steve Dalton
...The gist? People hire people they like and want to work with 8 hours a day. This book is an excellent resource in learning how to get out of the job application resume blackhole and to dive into conducting "informational interviews" with people at your target employers. 

2. Insight by Tasha Eurich
...Ever meet someone whose impression of himself is wildly off from the way people actually perceive him? We all have that coworker or friend-of-a-friend. This book describes the secret to soft skills success, which is learning to process feedback and become more self-aware. 

3. Mentorship 
...Nothing replaces having strong relationships in the tech community. Don't wait for your company to assign an official mentor - reach out to people you trust, and go out on a limb to contact people with whom you'd like to have a relationship. They'll be able to give you the most relevant feedback and a distanced perspective.

4. Mock Interviews
...In job seach mode, my husband and I interviewed one another to practice both technical and soft skills. Communication, listening, negotiation... they're all practiceable, repeatable skills with enough time.



Favorite resources for the job search

Soft Skills/Behavioral
2-Hour Job Search
Cracking the Tech Career
Women Don't Ask
Mentorship (nothing replaces getting in touch with people at a target company)
Mock Interviews


Technical
Interview Cake
Exercism.io
Cracking the Coding Interview
Whiteboard practice
Coding Bat
Anything by O'Reilly

